That's how you make
a restful API manually.
Yeah, some of you might be thinking, well,
that's a lot of work because we need to
fill out, check the post,
check the method.
Well, if you wanna move further,
remember I mentioned a Gin tool before,
but that's not the same one.
This is a different one.
It's called Gin Web Framework.
And now, you will see why it's called a,
I'm sorry, Gin Web Framework,
not Go Gin Web Framework.
That it's kind of its expressed, so
you have expressed framework,
you have Gin for Go, okay?
So it will make your life easier for
working with API for
example what else we are we
are not validating a lot of JSON.
We cannot make like
complex routing manually.
Also we are not using course right now,
I know if you know what courses, but
we should add manually the header for
course.
So the cross origin resource sharing
that's a JavaScript security
restriction that we need to add
manually those headers in our API.
But in this case,
using these frameworks is easy, okay?
You have here all the documentation,
how to install it, and After you use it,
you will see here you have all
the installation, they have the same idea.
So here is how Gin looks like.
So you create a new Gin with this and
then you say,
okay, I wanna receive a GET on that URL,
and this is my handler.
It seems clear because you don't
receive the writer and the request.
You have received something known
as a context that inside you have
the request and the response.
I have some quick functions.
In this case,
c.JSON is responding with JSON.
You have c.TXT, you have a lot of utility
functions, and then you run a server.
So at the end, it's the same, but
you write less code if you
use the Gin Web Framework.
And you are filtering the method
directly when you hook your handler.
Okay, does that make sense?
Cool, yeah.
>> Could you explain how or
demo using an external library in Go?
>> How to use an external library?
Yeah, sure.
Lets say you gonna use Gin.
Well, following the steps
will help you with that.
So, in this case,
the first step is to get,
this is similar to MPM install for
those of you using MPM.
So typically, you follow the steps
that you have in the library.
So in this case, we copy.
Go get into the terminal.
So for example here,
I'm going to stop my server and go get.
It will download everything.
Typically it's not like NodeModules,
I mean there are chain dependencies.
But not so
much as NodeModule most of the time.
It's done.
So after it's done, first, do we have
a NodeModules or something like that here?
No, we don't have a folder for this.
Everything goes to a Go temporary
folder in your computer.
So, it's not like a folder
within your computer.
But what we do have is
a change in our Mod file.
We have a require with the list of all
the dependencies that we have right now,
because we installed it.
So, it's changing go.mod actually, okay?
And here you have all the versions and
also you have some actions check for
upgrades.
That is just vs code is helping me
executing some CLI commands to do that and
the next step is to import it and
that's all.
And you use it.
So we go to main.go,
we import the library,
without import because I have
an import block like this.
Now it's complaining
because I'm not using it.
And then you use it.
That's all, so, in this case, gin.
So, you say gin., and you have gin.
So, you set mod and we can even copy and
paste the simple example
that we have here.
Okay, now that, and you're done.
So it's actually pretty simple.
The only step is to run
the CLI command to get, so
go get on the URL typically from
GitHub because it's open source.
If it's an open source package, and
then you import that and you're done.
So this case what will
happen if I run this?
Okay, now it's listening on 8080.
What happened with my server?
3333, are both running?
>> Yes.
>> Yes, no, let's see well let's
try it will look at whole 3333.
Nope it's not there.
8080?
No phone because it's
only registering /ping.
Ping pong.
[LAUGH] That's a ping pong.
So why my server is down?
By the way, it has a nice output in
the console about the request, that Gin.
Why?
Because that line, line 34 run is
staying there with the thread forever.
When you start the server,
the thread on that server stops there.
So then, line 36 is never being executed
unless there is an abort
process within Gin.
>> Can we use a Go routine?
>> We can use Go routines and
then launch two different servers or
one in a Go routine, and yeah, in that
case, if they're using different ports.
Then you will be serving on
both ports at the same time.
One with Gin, the other one, or
you can create a new function,
or if you wanna try something quickly,
you can create a function on the fly,
as we saw before, okay?
You put this in a function, you execute
the function at the same time, so
you define the function and execute that,
and you do that in a Go routine.
It's a pretty fast way to execute
a piece of code in a Go routine.